alright the video ahead is from one of
my group coaching calls so I do have a
guru level of my Spring Framework
beginner guru course and in this I do
offer group coaching calls tried to do
about once a month this is the very
first call that I've done so it's kind
of new I haven't done group coaching
calls before and we had some technology
hiccups there unfortunately I found out
that I could not run a Google hangout
directly from my domain without people
being already in the domain so we ran
into a glitch there jump over to zoom
and found that a couple people have
problems with zoom so I'm going to try
to find a different solution but this is
the very first call I have a pretty good
chat with two different students on it
we talked about spring and some
different technologies and how they are
using spring in their workplace I think
it's kind of interesting to see how how
spring is being used around the world
there's some really really old legacy
stuff out there that we have to deal
with and then there's also opportunities
to create brand new stuff so I hope you
enjoy this call we are going to start
trying to do these about once a month or
so to get people engaged and talk about
spring and these calls are really for my
community to talk about spring and see
what's going on in the spring spring
world so I hope you enjoyed this call
and like I said I'm going to be doing
this about once a month and we'll be
getting these videos posted for you
advices
first of all continuous delivery and
zero downtime because it's a topic that
I would always love to implement in
where I work but that's kind of
difficult because we still developing
struts 1.4 actually so that's why it's
pretty hard to do it yeah we're an e BN
partner company so legacy system our our
daily bread you know yeah yeah and
stress is brutal I think I looked at
that back in the 90s and haven't seen it
since
yeah yes yeah the trying to get zero
downtime with employments that that can
be somewhat tricky depending on the
application footprint that you have so
it becomes easier in a distributed type
architecture especially with things like
open shift or kubernetes I know an open
shift I believe it's also kubernetes you
can do rolling deployments so if you
have a micro service out there and let's
say you have three nodes of it running
you can promote new code to each node
and keep it up and running and then
it'll just like create another node node
with the new code on it and then drop
the old ones
so like deployment yeah exactly yeah the
most hard part that I found is done
because I'm interesting an MVC MVC type
of acacia not just web services about
section clustering how do you do it in
spring techniques and for example and
seeing it with Redis or with at a cost
mostly it's actually the server the
filter that replicate the session
between the nodes but yeah I wanted to
hear something about that yeah yeah
sessions clustering is always a thorn in
the side especially with the older
application server side again it kind of
depends on what the tech stack you're
running on what we did I was at Belk
Belk department stores and that get just
hammered on Black Friday with holiday
sales and they they I basically they
didn't do some clustering because well
the problems with WebLogic it was just
too much overhead and what they chose to
do was they front of things with a five
load balancer and then they did sticky
session hi guys so and
that's traditionally been a thorn in the
side and not spring session with some of
the the fast out of stores that does
open up different capabilities and a lot
of interesting ones I have not
personally worked with that but I think
it is a salad approach so especially
when you start backing it up with
something like Greta sword which say
Hayes Kass I mean oh those are very
valid options and very scalable options
great the tech stack is a it's a big
depends it's like Oh actually I'm
thinking about that it's a completely
new application of choruses in my line
of work it's very tough to achieve zero
downtime when struts and everything we
have a huge ear feet application so it's
jet Java wonderful what about five so
it's really hard to bring this that
context but since of starting this new
project with spring boots many of the
things that you covering in the
tutorials I found new questions then so
that's why I'm asking
okay yeah yeah I did I mean there's a
lot of modern technologies weird with
another retailer they were using this
awful software called Blue Martini there
they're no longer around but back in
early 2000s I just gobbled up a bunch of
retailers Blue Martini was like the
company go-to if you need a website
they're a CRM content provider they
manage like that day clients like Best
Buy and Kohl's was a customer and then I
went to Belkin Kohl's was still running
Java one four and this stuff so I
couldn't upgrade Blue Martini then I got
in there and I think the times once
seven had just been released and like
going in and writing code for them
having to relearn child because of all
the stuff that's not it
wonderful so some of those legacy stuff
is a real anchor to deal with but the
newer stuff you have a lot of
capabilities especially when you go away
from large model with applications to
something that's more micro service well
then X question would be I stink
my background is as I've told you I'm
dealing with legacy application and db2
and the databases - we still use JDBC
plainly but I want to move on to or am
actually seen I used hibernate and I've
used it for little topics myself but
searching the net and found that 4m are
considered also an anti-pattern so I
found another library which which is jo
o q jo something like that and I tried
playing with it and actually I my this
new project that I started on following
your course
instead of using nominate them I'm using
this this new tool chalk and I find
quite nice for something like complex
queries but - for crowd operation is
pretty clumsy or maybe because I'm not
that in a habit of using it actually I'm
more a JDBC kind of guy I just write
plain SQL or something but yeah I want
to hear some impression about this if
you try it
what do you think of it I've not used it
it looks pretty interesting though and I
can see see where would have benefits it
did look pretty cool and I'd like to
play with it to be honest but my my
go-to now
days for it if you're doing a typical
crud application it's definitely going
to be let's bring down a bring down a
JPEG so that a lot of lot of pain and
out of the persistence layer but you
know yeah that's real but well I like
better some of the dynamic query so that
you can set up whether they're lack of a
better term we can just define a method
and then you can get that query
parameter going so there's a spring that
is a pretty pretty powerful tool I'm
actually thinking about diving into more
or doing like a whole course on spring
data because there's a lot game I didn't
touch on in the spring five course yeah
well sorry but I have to have to go
right now I've many more equations but
if you check my email see if you like
some topics for the conversation you'll
fly it there you connect so much for now
and best of luck it's called yeah it a
couple glitches here's but hopefully the
next one go smoother by God all right
Cheers
oh good one we had a few problems some
early technical glitches and then we ran
into it yeah okay yeah so I originally
tried to use Google Hangouts and then
found out that I can only share that
link with people within my domain I'm
not sure why it had that restriction so
unfortunately okay right right
so recall me from from staff together no
awesome yeah a long way from from you
yes yes that's a awesome me right
actually a very good friend of mine
worked with them for years if news from
South Africa but I have never been to
that part of the world it's just pretty
cold at the moment I'm from Cape Town no
and yes
it's called Israeli left if it's dim
degrees outside so it's not it's not
snowing or but it's chilly it's really
not not the nice weather that we used to
do yeah yeah I got the exact up so it's
nice and toasty here in sunny Florida I
see it's a no wasted part of the US that
it's actually really warm at the moment
yeah yeah so definitely warm there and
then I'm actually in Florida so it's
pretty warm year-round here so okay
right all right okay so you you stole
the whitening for guys too you saw an
owner no let's just go and proceed I'm
not sure how many people more people if
they can join that camp bucket record
this and share with the group and now go
from there so thanks them so what can I
answer about spring for you I'm betting
with a very old spring quite a big
application that they're upgrading to
screening 4.3 and into spring five and
that's the thing
Sakura squeeze pattern is basically
allows you to you see pages and when you
click on on content button then it asked
you to sign in so I've got the spring
green Eric I'm working this afternoon
just just before I left
that's why I was a bit like I don't
really was on on the agent because it's
a company in the US and I do oil
development luckily in this decide ran
dollar exchanges it makes it quite cheap
to to do the development yeah Brooker
yeah in battling with the old spring and
that all squeezed petal attack on its
yeah
horrible thing that I've developed many
years ago before springing us even
looking at security
yeah was a really a bad one but at the
moment I'm on my doubts I would say
about 70 plus to say I'm busy doing
creation and stuff now from your course
yeah I don't really have a lot of
questions I just want to learn as much
as possible okay all right
yeah that that squeeze page that you're
talking about it's a redirect if they
are not signed in yes okay so I said I
don't I show that in my timely of course
I have got it into a spring 5 course but
you can definitely do that it's pretty
pretty simple to do to redirect them to
a sign-in page so they click on it and
these that's all baked into spring
security yeah the problem is the old
velocity tablets at the front end is
threatening there's a lot of Microsoft
stuff in there that I was told it's only
two fixed expectations in stuff to come
back now now that spin is ending the
redirects pop are there servlets you
don't have Jason coming back and that
won't be this problem redirects it gives
me a redirect to the correct login page
but this I use a UI I it's a library
nothing was now expecting J's and then
it just sits there and wait for stuff to
come back and it's just white and white
thing and then eventually throw up
vomiting yeah could have money already
know so it'll leak egde into the
velocity tepid templates then huh yeah
that's that's not funny yeah and as a
it's not a project it was awful
the company that coded it and they they
added in customizations into the JSP
templates and that they're doing they'd
set up static methods on Java classes
and ultimately the static methods were
calling an Oracle database I mean
they're making a database cannibal like
right from the JSP tefillah is like oh
my god ColdFusion yeah we call the
database directly from the fronton yeah
that's awful
yeah it's
down just about an hour south of Mia
Sarasota and it it's like a little cold
cold fusion hub that people down there
just love using cold fusion I'm like
it's just weird
so go yes there's a lot of insurance
companies there but it as a lot of
people still use cold fusion down there
it's just kind of weird so a lot of
small insurance companies okay our
company is 3,000
he bought a cold fusion platform I think
it's by my solutions is the MasterCard
integrated payment solutions thing
they're written in cold fusion yeah and
we OH
like I said to me I base rack this 16
server so I think there's two VMs on it
I mean as the passwords it's written
ColdFusion runs and MySQL there you go
actually it's stuff up and running and
we were looking for ColdFusion
developers in South Africa at the point
money wasn't an issue we just couldn't
find anybody alright so I teach myself
cold fusion as well for my sense and
then we redesigned all platform into
Java okay you give ejbs and stuff like
that yeah just like a spring 3 e3
starting spring for environment and then
all the girls are like that on the team
and I know it was je but I guess it's a
pity we didn't add one one more year for
the spring for stuff cuz that would have
been really a totally different
environment to up you know
yeah it turned out much just good yeah I
think the biggest challenge was and
coupling with running into API clips
link and we activated transactions and
that wasn't supported natively as East I
had to do it a mixture of container
manage and user management
nice them so I can lock database records
and succeed some of the sub transsexuals
and go back some of the big ones he said
no sir I said nice one yeah sounds very
sporting to sir
we running gloss you were running last
wish that was three no just before
window eighty-four
Oracle see today we're going to stop
class she said English Oh have any of
you from any other class efficient
environment
no I don't look good for a while let's
build more time at some point in time I
said okay fall is the lightest we're not
going to do any more of development on
that and I see they actually that's when
PR guys took over and I see a new
release from spring and out again but
this thing boot is really killing the
market now you have these so easy yeah
so it's really really not yeah it's
really taking off and I think spring
spring goes definitely what the spring
community needed it because a lot of
stuff was getting just so complex and it
once you got into it you get used to
just add like do all the stuff to do all
the configuration now it's like it's I
mean it you're always doing the same
thing and now now spring boosts
automating all the stuff that you
automatically did yeah yes I remember
I'm activity engine was spring in a
previous company well so spring I think
it's four point two somewhere on there
but to get all the zombies to match yes
hey guys just to get everything to work
together I don't want to do upgrades and
it's not good it yeah I remember
have you seen that day keep stirring
environment yeah yeah he's brilliant
yeah I'm actually a guide and Vega and I
are working on a
i J hipster course for calming angular
and spring boot but it would be lucky if
sterner covers and my last client
there was a startup and that
unfortunately ran out of money but we
were prototyping some micro services
using J hipster and that does actually
really cool the markdown that's really
to give that was clipping book that
really makes it easy for you yeah you
basically just need to both the best
business logic everything he's done for
you yeah yeah and J hipster I mean it I
did a job security and I had an OAuth
server built in and all the cloud
discovery so it is pretty slick little
stack and it's like yeah server I need a
micro service so it's pretty cool to ask
you specific at that moment used to been
to wait for smarter guys got one more on
I think they're muted right now okay so
you've been pointing through the course
yes it's been four point three
development but it's more like you know
his friend you start with the company in
Kossoff Econoline you jump on board
anything I upgrade works this way just
to use it up and what I've really
enjoyed is going right from the
beginning on the course by going right
down to the forest and focusing myself
to actually go through it and mm-hmm
there's quite a lot I must say I really
enjoyed it
oh I'm just wrapping up recording
content around reactive mango okay so
just wrapping it up so the reactive
programming in spring five is pretty
cool yes
the reactive load testing and they
wouldn't that be impressed with response
town siren if he's seen that yeah it
just came out a few days ago right
that's one of the technical news news
later in production yeah yeah so the
reactor stuff was actually a little
slower but not I'm not terribly
surprised that I think the the theory of
reactive program is good but it's rated
spring fives not even gone GA yet so I
think the other stuffs been out there
and it's it's definitely served the test
of time it was brand new so I imagine
they're going to be finding further
optimizations to do so I'll be curious
to just see how it matures if you in the
market service environment we've got
back in sit and actually spell an annual
the load as it increases listen at the
end of the day if you're running on a
small box up they they detonated below
this you're running to CP limitations
and stuff like that yeah you can it so
far so I think if you look into a
complete reactive scalable environment
it will definitely make a difference
yeah yeah they will and I know that I'm
kind of I'm kind of torn on it because
at the end of day if you're splitting
out into micro services let's pull up
another node god that's serving a
request if the front ain't got he can
handle it more notes in the backend
mm-hmm as a single entry point we've got
a little drips features to stuff like
that but I uh interesting is nice stuff
yes that's not a week that goes by
that's not something you some you know
some new new stuff to try out yeah yeah
yep absolutely and I was just looking at
the spring wants to call the spring
cloud data flow and that that's pretty
pretty interesting my
name right yeah spring cloud dataflow so
it's that's a pretty interesting and
fairly recent project from spring and
it's all about streaming stuff so okay
your clusters that's that you so it's a
pretty pretty interesting so trying to
get my head around that so I mean yeah a
lot of neat stuff going on in the
community yes right keep the rest of
your clothes ya know we're coming up
about the time the plan time and so I
apologize for the technical glitches we
had I'll make make sure the next one
goes smoother okay what's the plan fun
does it no it moves plan for one hour so
there are at least I planned it for one
hour okay
no but thanks let's what live for them
and really enjoy it okay thank you
thanks and hopefully I'll see you on a
call in the future so yes commute this
ball yeah yeah so yeah I want to open up
the forum I'm really not quite sure what
to expect with this but I wanted to have
a chance to to chat and and see see
where I can help people so yes I think
it from from what I can see that yes
their security environment is it's
always a it's like there's so many
different opinions and different ways of
doing it you know you if you can bring
out something or discussion on that we
started a little discussion on that it's
very helpful okay yeah yeah that
security is a big topic and I do plan on
adding adding that to the spring spring
5 course yeah kind of torn as to how
deep to go it's like one of those were
you
you can like touch on it but I mean the
whole spring security that could be
easily be a standalone course to so yes
and it
spring fight are you getting pretty
pretty big pretty meaty yes I've got
stuff that I need to do and it's bring
far for us and far that we do now it's
pretty standard of the only big problem
around question is this pretty security
stuff yeah okay so the new girl fan off
especially trying to figure out how to
get all of these controllers yeah
they've got five six layers of extended
necks at classes and off your dislike no
it's not verbal it's not easy it's not
nice yeah if you go if you go go boss to
be theatrical awesome you know something
is wrong
I like that simple stupid
oh yeah yeah so I mean you see seen my
stuff I mean I always try to go very
pragmatic and just because you can get
really fancy doesn't mean you should
just makes it so much support it falters
down the line a tree is down a line even
yeah a lot of especially in how a small
country our IT guys I don't stay long in
a company they really move to three
years and I move on yeah hello and then
that knowledge is gone so if you might
get complex I normally write I only
write more code more comments and code
my my stuff that I do people frown on
that but yes even for me two years down
the line it's easier to understand where
I've actually tried to do at that point
in time yeah keep it simple
yeah buddy mine has a great thing about
common season he says cameras only tell
you what the developer thought it was
going to do this problem you say hey you
were actually very stupid when you're
trying to do there
yeah yeah and what people don't don't
realize that more time is spent reading
code than writing code so yes now to two
months trying to pull out the stuff and
I think I've written about five lines of
code
yeah yeah right
I write them write a few lines yeah yeah
very okay what'd you get that it's that
evening there right yes it's evening now
kids are watching some serious yeah so
I'm going to stop stop finishing docker all
right yeah I could work before so that's
very nice it's nice stuff yeah yeah
really yeah nice nice nice stuff all
right
thank you very much all right thank you
yeah I'm good enjoy it enjoy the weekend
all right thanks you too right okay my
heart is